---
title: "The Elephant Man's Lament"
path: "/passover"
date: "2019-05-12"
coverImage: "../images/carts.jpg"
author: "Joe"
excerpt: "It was nearly 2:00 AM on a Saturday night and I was in the last place I had hoped to be spending my weekends at 26. I was on my hands and knees arranging jars of artichoke hearts and I still had three more shelves to go."

tags: ["employment", New York City",]
---

The Elephant Man's Lament
Reigniting an old dream did nothing but allow me to see it get smothered.
I woke up on the couch and fumbled around for my glasses a bit. My hand swept back and forth across the coffee table, knocking over an empty beer. After a second and third pass, my familiar thick-rimmed frames could still not be felt. I twisted myself upright and caught my reflection in the black television screen. I grabbed the remote and the local news came on. The car accident they were covering was a preferable alternative to the face looking back at me. It was Wednesday and the weather forecast for Syracuse was rain. I had been fired from my job in New Jersey a few weeks prior, and decided that essentially fleeing the state was the appropriate response. I had gotten the idea while telling the whole story to a close friend from the army. He suggested that I move into his place upstate while I figured things out. I was friendly with his three roommates and the rent would be less than half what I was used to. That made enough sense for me. I packed up my apartment the next day, and everything I owned fit snugly into dad's 04 Honda Element. Six hours later, I arrived at my new home.
What I spent the last eight dollars of my severance check on.By this point, I had been drinking for a number of days straight. I wasn't sure exactly how many because I stopped counting after ten. I decided to finally leave the couch without my glasses, and I made my way over to the dusty desktop computer in the corner of the den. Lighting the half of the cigarette I had left in the ashtray the night before, I logged into the Syracuse University portal for hopeful law school applicants. I closed my eyes before ever so slowly opening them to see what had come up on the screen. My decision was still pending.
There's a lot of people that think I'm a particularly driven and ambitious person, which is a wonderful compliment, but only half true at best. The real reason I had suddenly caught a second wind in applying to law school was not because I still had these grandiose dreams for myself. This wasn't a case of falling off the horse and getting back on stronger than before. The simple truth of the matter was that I was doing it because I didn't want to go back to work. I had tried living in the real world and only made it about three weeks. The way that I saw things, getting into law school was my ticket back into the warm, comfortable purgatory of academia, and if I could somehow manage to pull the whole thing off, I would be free to go back to dicking around for another three long years.
"What's Joe up to?"
"He's in law school."
I sat back and fantasized how great those conversations would be. Maybe when I graduated I could sue my old boss for something. Maybe I could sue the other guys from the office too? I started thinking about how I could sue everyone who ever wronged me in the most minuscule ways possible. I even thought about how the judges would set me up for sweet one-liners.
"Counselor, do you have anything to add?"
"Can't do the time? Don't fuck with Trubenstein."
Then I would crank that (Soulja Boy) for a couple minutes while the defendant started sobbing.
I put out my cigarette and made it about four steps before stepping on my glasses. Thankfully there was no real damage, and as soon as my distance vision was restored, I saw a familiar vehicle pulling into the driveway.
The man who got out was like no one I had previously encountered in life. We would oftentimes refer to him as John Merrick, after he developed a habit of putting a towel over his head at parties and performing an homage to Victorian era London's famous "Elephant Man." Some may think this was in poor taste, but I was always able to appreciate the art behind it. I walked into the kitchen and got two beers out of the fridge. I always looked forward to his unannounced visits. He was somewhere around twice my age and had what one might call a wealth of life experiences. He was very open about his own personal trials and tribulations, which made him easy to confide in. I let him in the front door and we both sat down on the couch.
"Would you like to see a picture of my mother? She has the face of an angel."A few weeks later I was rejected from law school. I had spent the last of my severance check and took the only job I could find, a part time janitor position in an office building. It wasn't the worst thing in the world. I worked after-hours so I would have the whole place to myself. My responsibilities were broken down into little more than two major tasks. First I was to vacuum the carpets, then I would mop the hardwood. Someone else handled changing the garbages. Occasionally I would help with the bathrooms. The whole ordeal could be completed usually in just under four hours. I would pass the time by listening to long-form interview podcasts. When I got home my friends would be sleeping. When I woke up they had already left for work. I didn't see anyone for a long time.
The summer was nearing its end and I was sitting in my backyard across from the Elephant Man. I was playing my own version of Russian Roulette, where I had to remember which beers I've finished and subsequently made into ashtrays. I had been becoming increasingly depressed, and the Elephant Man had taken notice. He suggested that some recreational drug use might take my mind off things. I had my reservations.
"It's just that I've never really had any desire. To tell you the truth, I've always been kind of afraid."
"Of mushrooms?"
"Well out of all my friends who had stories to tell, no one's ever shared a positive one."
"Like what?"
"Well, there was this one kid; he had to throw his shoes out of the car because the laces kept growing and trying to strangle him."
"Impossible."
"And this other guy who couldn't get out of bed because his ceiling fan kept swinging over his face like the pit and the pendulum."
The Elephant Man put his 7–11 big gulp full of vodka down in the grass as if to preemptively underline the next point he was about to make.
"I hate to tell you this, Joe. But your friends are fuckin' losers. Mushrooms are a little buzz. Like having a couple of beers."
The person who signed this letter had a last name that ended in the same 7 letters as mine. So much for looking out for each other.Eventually I made it back to the couch. I hadn't taken any psychedelic drugs but I was pretty drunk. It didn't feel good. I emptied my pockets onto the coffee table for the night. I opened my box of cigarettes and saw that I only had one left. The screen door was covered in moths and the crickets seemed so loud it made my teeth hurt. I had to get the fuck out of here.